I do think we've created a regulatory
structure and a market structure that
really makes it unattractive to go
public until you have to. The reason
these companies are going public now is
because they have to. They have capital
needs that are so voracious that it is
not prudent for them to try to do 100%
of it in the private market and not have
a public currency.
>> It's it's just not prudent. And um and
that's why I think you're going to see a
bunch of these companies go public
because they actually need the capital.
It's interesting. I've advised companies
for years and at one point 25 years ago
I actually ran the equity capital
markets business at Goldman Sachs. That
was a job I had early in my career in
Goldman Sachs and and I used to say to
companies you know there are a few
reasons to go public. You need the
capital, you need the currency, you have
to create liquidity for, you know, early
investors. But all the other stuff that
people talk about is really not
critical. And you have to recognize that
if you're running a company successfully
and you don't need those things, when
you take it public, you will run it
differently. You will run it
differently. It is different running a
public company than a private company.
There are different pressures. There's
different life cycle of how you have to
respond. You will run it differently.
And so my advice has always been wait as
long as you possibly can to go public.
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> So Joe, when we talk about AI Yes. and
its impact on jobs and businesses. One
of the things we like to do or one of
the prisms through which we like to
explore AI is through banks.
>> Absolutely.
>> So you think about banks, they've got
big tech budgets. Y
>> they're talking to AI companies all the
time. They're their clients essentially.
So they're deploying a lot of this
technology and then they have this whole
array of jobs, right? You have the
classic sort of process workers in the
back office. Yes. You've got the junior
analysts who are churning out
powerpoints, but you also have bankers
in IB who are doing more, I guess,
relationship driven business. So, you
have this really good cross-section of
the sort of white collar jobs that
people think about when we think about
AI disruption.
>> Do you remember in the 2010s when every
bank CEO is like, you know, we actually
like to think of ourselves as a tech
company? I remember that was a fun
little
>> bring in the ping pong tables for the
engineers. That was it, right?
>> That was a fun little era. But no,
you're absolutely right. And of course,
you know, AI is largely expected, at
least until we have much more advanced
robotics, expect to affect white collar
labor first. You mentioned the whole
range. But there are aspects of when I
think about being a banker, working in a
bank that to your point really do feel
like, you know, relationships and like
there's the cliche, it's like, you know,
go out and golf, but I think they do
actually golf a lot. I think that is
part of the business.
>> All right. Well, we'll find out. We have
spoken to Marco Argenti at Goldman Sachs
before. He's the CTO about how the bank
is actually deploying technology. But
today we have an even more more perfect
guest if that's possible. We're going to
be speaking of course to David Solomon.
He's the CEO and chairman of Goldman
Sachs. And he just penned an op-ed in
the New York Times with the headline,
I'm the CEO of Goldman Sachs. The AI job
apocalypse is overblown. So truly the
perfect guest to talk about all of this.
Uh David, thanks for coming on Thoughts.
>> Thank you for having me. I'm delighted
to be with you guys.
>> Congrats on the OpEd. You're in the
media industry now.
>> Well, I I'm I'm trying not to be in the
media industry, but I'm I'm glad I'm
glad I wrote the op-ed, by the way. Not
my title, the New York Times title.
>> Uh the New York Times title, but um
>> but I'm glad I'm glad I wrote the oped.
>> Why did you write it?
>> Well, I I I wrote the op-ed. I haven't
written a lot of op-eds. I think in my
eight years, I've written two. Um, and
the last one was back in 2019 before
COVID and it was around it was around
energy where I where I was trying to
talk about the fact that I thought there
was going to be real change in the
context of the energy supply chain and
it was very important that we made
investments in things that were greener
and we moved in that direction. But I
also stated at the time and took a
little heat for this very emphatically
that oil and gas was going to be a
significant part of the energy supply
chain for decades to come and Goldman
Sachs would be financing
>> um, you know, fossil fuel companies for
a long long time. Um
and you know in looking at the lens you
know now I I think that that it is very
important that we have a thoughtful and
detailed discussion about the change
that's going on and and and let's just
start if you don't if you don't mind if
I can step back I am hugely hugely
optimistic about this technology and the
impact that this technology can have on
large-scale enterprises like Goldman
Sachs and the productivity gains that it
can create which I do believe can
increase economic growth, create more
prosperity and you know more impact you
know on our economic system broadly in a
very very positive way. I am hugely
optimistic and I I think about things in
five to 10 year you know time bites like
what what should we expect to see over
the next 10 years that's the way I think
about things when when I make a
statement like that at the same point
I'm extraordinarily cognizant about the
fact that it's not going to be a
straight line there's going to be
disruption there are going to be jobs
displaced
>> as there have been with any other
technology acceleration over the course
of of history and you know we as a as an
important company and governments also
do too play a role in, you know,
thinking about what's the best way to
make this go as well as possible, but
with the ultimate goal of having the
technology make our society more
productive and therefore allow for more
economic growth and more participation
by, you know, by everyone. And I was
listening to a variety of things that
were being said and they didn't really
make sense to me.
>> Um, and I thought it was important for
Goldman Sachs to get into the
discussion. And so you know my general
there are things that are always
different but I generally you know if
you want to talk about kind of
fundamental principles that I have after
40 some years of doing this it's never
different this time.
>> Um meaning meaning I don't think we're
going to wake up in a world where nobody
works and there has to be universal
basic income and we have massive
unemployment. I just don't think that's
the way our economy works. and and and
when people start talking about those
things or postulating about those
things, I don't think they're being
thoughtful about really looking in a
granular way at the labor force and how
job creation works in our economy and um
and how technology disruption in the
past has has changed and shifted you
know the nature or the makeup of labor
and the economy in the US. I think to
even begin the discussion of like will
AI cause a white collar wipeout or as
you as you did say in the op-ed like
some some areas will really change and
head counts will change but to begin
this conversation you have to know like
well what is a job what does someone
actually do at their job and so I don't
know maybe this is a chance I'll let you
like butter you up let you brag about
yourself for a little bit I saw a quote
I was doing some prep and you were
talking about earlier in your care
career and going from bear sterns to
gold You say and you said I was a big
producer at Bear Sterns. I built a lot
of relationships there and brought a lot
of relationships to the firm. This is
the part where you can what made you
good at your job? What was like there
were a lot of people there at Bear at
the time. You eventually became the CEO
of Goldman Sachs. What was it that like
the skill that you had or that
successful people in that role had that
made them do their jobs well?
>> Well, finance has evolved.
You know, I started in 1984. I recently
referred to that as the prehistoric days
of finance when by the way I have long
flowing hair. Um and um
you know it was just a very different
world. And so let's just start with the
fact that finance was a relatively nent
industry and also had been relatively
stagnant for 15 years because we really
went through a period from the late 60s
to the early 1980s where interest rates
were going straight up.
>> Yeah. Jan September 15, 1982 is a very
very important day in the history of
financial markets because that is the
day that the 10-year Treasury hit 15.9%.
And it also happens to be no it also
happens to be you know a little less
than two years before you know I landed
at the Irving Trust Company at one Wall
Street to um to start my um my career.
And you know at the time you got trained
to do analysis but the business was very
entrepreneurial. There was very little
structure and there was so much open
running room, you know, to go out and
participate that young people,
especially when you got away from the
most white shoe firms, which at the time
were Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley,
were really encouraged to go make their
way. And so I was working at um at
Irving Trust. And this was a time when
almost everybody in finance went to
business school. I was applying to
business school in uh in 1985 and I got
a job offer to work in the junk bond
business at Drexel Bernham and I decided
to take it because it appeared lucrative
and my dad
>> jump bonds were like the only thing
taking off basically in finance in the
early 80s. They were it was definitely
an area of finance that was accelerating
and it was very entrepreneurial and um
and I said to my dad you know this is
taking a risk because everybody else is
going to business school
>> and my dad said go try it for two years
if it doesn't work you go to business
school in two years I mean it was really
it was a pretty good
>> it was a pretty simple yeah you know
piece of advice
>> but I went to Drexel Burnham it was very
entrepreneurial and the culture there
were good things and bad things about
the culture at Drexel and some of the
bad things are the reason why in 1990 on
February 14th 1990 Drex Burnham went out
of business.
>> But, um, as many other Wall Street firms
have in the history of Wall Street. But,
you know, for the four and a half years
that I was there, um, basically I was
told, "Go find a way to build
relationships and make money. Go find a
way to build, you know, I was 24 years
old. Go bring business into the firm."
We sat at a desk. I um,
>> I golfed a little bit, but, you know, we
sat on a desk and we called people and
talked to people. And it was a time when
it was a time in the world when if you
picked up the phone and called someone
you would get them on the phone and you
would talk to them and if you were an
effective salesperson you could you
could do a lot of business.
>> So to some extent you were like good at
sales you were good at making that call.
>> One of the great experiences I have this
is an experience I've talked about a
little bit but I haven't talked about a
lot but a a seinal experience in my
personal development was the summer
after my freshman year in college. Um, I
got an internship in a Meil Lynch
office. Um, it happened to be the office
that was uh at uh I think it was um I
think it was like 10pen plaza. It was by
Madison Square Garden. And I I got the
internship because I was my my high
school girlfriend's father ran that
Maril Lynch office.
>> Always helps.
>> And um and he said, "Why don't you come
and do an internship for the summer?"
And I said, "What would you do?" And he
said, "You know, you you'd call on
clients." I really had no idea what he
was talking about. So, I show up at this
Marilyn Lynch office and they plop me
down and they give me a zip code list.
Okay, basically, and it was the zip code
was 1028 and 10128. Basically, the upper
east side of Manhattan. This is 1981,
okay? They give me a zip code list and
they say, "Make a 100 phone calls a day
and ask people if they're interested in
talking to a Maryland broker." And
during the course of the summer, okay,
for eight weeks, I made a hundred phone
calls a day. I got five people to talk
to a Maryland broker and we went and had
one meeting and opened one account.
>> Oh my god.
>> Okay. It was brutal. Brutal. And after
after the first week, I I said to my
dad, I was like, I don't know that I can
do this for the whole summer. And he
said, yes, you can. You took it on. You
got to finish it. And I started thinking
about and this is the seminal thing that
I'm I'm I'm trying to point to. I
started to think about how am I gonna
make this more fun because it is very
difficult to cold call. Now this was a
time when people would answer the
telephone but and I just started making
it a game and but what did it teach me?
It taught me to pick up the phone and
talk to anybody. And when I got to
Drexel Burnham and here there were real
financial incentives for picking up the
phone and talking to people. I mean
they're they weren't paying me anything.
Um, and they just wanted me to do this
and I was doing it to learn. You put
financial incentives in place. I found I
could call anybody. I could get people
on the phone. I could keep people on the
phone. I could go see people. I could
relate to people even though I was very
young. And I could bring business into
the firm. And very quickly I became good
at that. And when I arrived, you know,
at Bear Sterns after Drexel Burnham went
out of business, I very quickly became a
very significant producer and a culture
that was kind of eat what you kill.
>> And it was a great experience. I don't
think that's the way I don't think it
was the perfect culture and
>> you know cultures evolved but I do think
there's something here and one of the
things we're talking about a lot at
Goldman I think it's really important
>> I still think humanto human contact
matters a lot
>> and I think one of the great
opportunities we have with this
technology expansion is to get our young
people out with clients talking to
clients broadening our client footprint
they're incredibly capable they're
incredibly capable this shifted over the
last 30 40 years and it it it really I
don't think it shift shifted for the
better and now we're going to shift it
back and I think it's a real
opportunity.
>> Wait, say more about this because in
your oped you talk about the Stanford
data showing like a 16% decline in
entry-level hiring. So this is something
that's happening right now and
presumably a lot of the work that you
know younger analysts at Goldman Sachs
do right now could be commoditized
through AI, right? If I'm building a
PowerPoint presentation, I I no longer
need like 10 analysts to stay up all
night to do that. I can just generate it
through a platform. So, how do you how
do you see the role of junior analysts
and then how do you I guess train the
next generation of banking talent at
>> I I I um I think that's a really really
good question and I want to get to that
but I just I just want to comment on one
of the things that you said that I think
is a really interesting thing for us to
think about
>> because I did quote that statistic
>> but I think it's important for us to
think about and see that statistic for
what it is. Okay? Because when I
graduated from college, it was very,
very hard to get a job. But not
everybody wanted to get a job, okay, in
the white collar professions
>> that are defined by the 16%. But I'd
also argue even today, if you graduate
from a liberal arts college
>> and you want to go be a school teacher,
>> okay, that's not counted in the 16%.
>> Okay, there's not a there's not a
decline. What they've done is they've
taken a handful of industries that
they're looking at that fit this kind of
social narrative of what the right kind
of job is when you're coming out of
college.
>> Okay, which by the way I think is a very
faulty lens to look through and that
group is declining by 16%.
>> Okay, but if you want what if you want
to go buy what if you graduate from
college and you say, you know what, I
really think I can do something really
cool and entrepreneurial by making the
world's best sub sandwich. I'm going to
go open a store and start a sub business
and try to grow a sub business and over
the next however many decades you grow a
huge sub business. That's
>> so used to be in the sandwich business.
>> Were you in the sandwich business?
>> The sandwich
>> after college.
>> That's a nice way of saying I had a job
at a deli.
>> There are so many but there are so many
different things you can do. I've got
great friends I went to college with. I
have one friend that I went to college
with that basically graduated from
college. you know, he had, you know, he
he had studied science, you know,
physical sciences and he decided he
wanted to be an electrician and he had
his own electrical business in upstate
New York where I went to college. But
then ultimately he got pulled into, you
know, other kinds of businesses where
the skills he had developed over 10 or
20 years, you know, building his
electrician business could be put into
other, you know, things and his, you
know, his career evolved. And so, you
know, there's there's a narrative about
jobs and entry level jobs and what I
don't even know what it all means. What
what I know is you want to be a learner
through life. You go to school to get
educated and to broaden yourself and to
meet people. Not everybody should go to
a traditional school. There should be
lots of different paths. But the goal is
to start on the journey of figuring out
what you're passionate about, what you
enjoy, how you're going to make money,
how you're going to support yourself,
how you're going to support hopefully
the family that you have. And there are
lots of different paths. There are lots
of lots of different paths.
>> Okay. But assume that we're talking
about someone who wants to get into
Goldman
College. And I and I don't mean to I
don't mean to bontificate about that,
but I think it's a really important, you
know, thing because this goes to the
op-ed
>> and kind of the labor force. There's a
lot of the labor force that has nothing
to do with what we're talking about. I
think that's something that we've got to
keep coming back to in the discussion.
>> So, you know, coming out, you know,
coming out to Goldman, you know, coming
to Goldman at this point in time, you
know, we hire, you know, this we just
right now, okay, we just have 2500, it
might be 2,400 interns starting.
>> Wow.
>> And in July, we have approximately the
same number of permanent, you know, new
hires that are starting. The first thing
is there are a bunch of them that are in
quote, you know, client-f facing jobs
and roles. There are a bunch of them
that are in operational roles. There are
a bunch of them that are in technology
and engineering roles. I mean, there's
there's a wide wide range of jobs. I
mean, there's there are a couple of them
that are working in marketing, okay, and
advertising. I mean, there's, you know,
there's a wide wide range of jobs. All
the experiences are different. All the
opportunity sets are different. When I
was talking to you about out with
clients, I was talking about the people
that are in the client-f facing roles.
And you know, one of the things I truly
believe in, look, I see this. I sat with
a group of venture-backed founders at
dinner at my apartment the other night.
The average age was like 28.
>> So impressive, so smart.
>> By the way, the people are hiring at
Goldman Sachs are so impressive, so
smart. They're peers with these people
that are going and starting businesses.
They can't go out and talk to clients
and have an impact. And so with the
technology it makes it more leveraging.
I mean I think you guys saw you know
because I've used this example of when I
started doing a common stock comparison
took six hours.
>> Go Microfich Wall Street Journal the
only source of historical stock prices.
Put it on graph paper. Take a picture of
it.
>> If you really think about that example
what that example is actually saying is
if you were a company and you wanted to
know where your stock was trading during
the day. Yeah. You had two choices. You
could call or three choices I guess
technically you could call your
investment banker and say hey where is
my stock trading right now and the fact
that we had a quotron you know in our
office okay we could tell them they
could they didn't know they didn't have
a quotron
>> or you could call your stock broker if
you had one or go outside your office
and find a Maril Lynch or an EF Hutton
or a Dean Witter you know office on the
street and look at the ticker tape and
wait until your stock would buy on the
ticker tape. Okay? Or, you know, or you
could wait until the next day and open
up the Wall Street Journal and see where
your stock traded that day. So, we were
offering a huge value service by simply
having this technological machine that
allowed us to tell them where their
stock was trading.
>> So, if you think about what young people
were doing when I started, a lot of what
we were doing was taking very primitive
technology and giving information to
people that were trying to run their
businesses. And the pace of everything
was very, very slow. We've now over
40ome years accelerated that enormously.
And so the productivity level of all
these people's gone up up and up and up.
We haven't had fewer people. Now maybe
this technology is accelerating in a way
where over time we will actually
fundamentally have fewer people. But
what I would argue is the real challenge
for us is we've got to find ways to
apprentice them and teach them a variety
of things that they're not going to
intuitively learn because they don't
actually have to work as hard to get the
answer. When I had to go to the
microfich and look at the different
stocks and see how they were trading,
actually put it on graph paper and
absorb the differences and do the math
to explain what the percentage
compounding differences were. I was
learning something.
>> Yeah.
>> That now if you if you ask for it, you
get it instantaneously. You know, has
your brain really absorbed what's
actually happening? And so the challenge
is how do we apprentice and give people
the base of knowledge, but how do we
also allow these tools to allow them to
get out into the world so that they can
really have a bigger impact faster? And
we're we don't have the answers to this
yet, but we're really thinking about
that.
>> So just like two sort of short job
related questions. First one is you can
almost yes or no. It's like those skills
that you had, you were very comfortable
picking up the phone and so forth and
getting maybe people to answer just
>> today if someone is there a role for
that person still that that same
>> definitely okay that's by the way I
don't think that's going to change I
just you can you guys can go look I gave
a commencement speech
>> at Wharton um you know last month and
one of the lines in the commencement
speech was
>> the phone the telephone is one of the
greatest pieces of technology in the
world
>> you know use it a telephone call to
someone is 10 times more valuable.
>> Yeah.
>> Than a text or an email. My daughter
says that's an unverified statistic, but
I know that's true. And it is. If I if I
call you personally on the phone, it's
going to have a completely different
impact than if I sent you a text or
email,
>> but I don't know your number. I'm not
>> I would also accept a text from David.
>> Just as the followup, and this is more
of a sort of specific
>> that's not going away. I mean, I really
believe Joe that's not going to go away
>> of that mix of new hires. uh you the
range of jobs including engineering jobs
including would you has that do you can
you identify is there a change different
between today in 2026 versus say the pre
chat GPT era 2021 in terms of like have
you seen a difference yet just in terms
of like the allocations of anything with
any hiring decision so far
>> subtle subtle changes but you can't you
can't look at it in a vacuum so you said
you said to me I can be very detailed
with you I think you know I think with
all this stuff nuance details matter.
If you look over the last 10 years,
I'd say what's happened is the amount of
engineering talent we had at the firm
grew materially.
>> Y
>> on a relative basis to operational
talent or client talent. Okay.
There are variety of things that
happened because of the pandemic
that bloated or inflated hiring across
all large enterprises.
>> Yeah. And so if you if you say you know
since chat GPT
>> like if you take 2022 is the that was
like the high watermark of the bloat.
>> This is the problem
the high water
historians will be vexed by the
confounding variables of 2022 for a very
long time.
>> Absolutely. So so if you ask me a
question and I'm like okay 2022. Yes.
But that's the wrong starting point
because if you look at 2022, a bunch of
what we've done from 2022 to 2025 and
now in 2026 was correcting the stupid
things that we did in 2020 and 2021.
>> And so I think you've got to look at it
through a 10-year lens. And what I would
say is at this point,
>> you know, if you look at a 10-year lens,
it shifted to more heavily weighted
engineering. My guess is that's going to
shift differently going forward given
the power of these tools and our ability
to code. Mhm.
>> Um, and you're going to see nuance
changes that probably to some degree
reduce the number of people that we
start with over the next few years, but
probably not what you and I would call
dramatically. Okay?
>> So, I don't want to be, you know,
predictive because if I throw out a
number, you know, here, everybody's
going to start holding me to the number.
But, you know, I just told you we were
running it at, you know, 2500, which by
the way looks similar to what we were
running at pre-COVID,
>> okay?
>> But lower than the 3,000 plus we were
running in 2021.
Okay?
>> You know, my guess is it's going to be
in the next three years. That will
contract a little, but not in a way when
you and I would say, "Wow, this is a
huge, huge change.
>> We're still going to hire a lot of
people out of school." I mean, aside
from potential headcount reductions and
like cost savings, how do you actually
measure productivity gains at Goldman?
>> That is a great question, Tracy.
Um,
you know, we're I can tell you some
examples of things we're doing where I
know we'll be able to quantify some
significant productivity gains, but
they're more in the category of remaking
operating processes. So, what we're
doing under what I know you guys have
read about 1GS 3.0 0. So if if we redo
our client onboarding,
anti-moneylaundering KYC processes and
we had a process that had 3,800 people
touching it, not 100% of their job
touching it. And now we'll have a
process with a few hundred people
touching it. That's a productivity when
it's done. I can measure the
productivity gain of that process. Okay,
that's different than saying to me,
okay, you've got a bunch of people who
work in investment banking. Okay, how
much more productive are they? Now, one
measure is I can look at the revenues we
have in investment banking and the
earnings in investment banking and the
number of investment bankers we have and
the amount of capital we allocate to
that business over the last 10 years.
And you know what?
>> Our people are more productive because
we're making on a per person basis more
revenue, more more um more uh profit
>> on a per person basis. But we definitely
are allocating more capital to the
business and the capital's helping and
creating leverage. But there's no
question they have better tools. They
can do more. We've found ways for them
to do more. We also have collaborative
power going on inside the firm in the
context of 1GS 1.0 and 2.0 that are
adding to revenue growth. Um it's very
hard to pull it apart. But but I think
every five years we can directionally
say is it more productive? Yes, it is
because our, you know, you you go back
when the firm went public, you know, the
firm had six billion dollars of capital,
I believe, and and and we had 16,000
people, you know, something like that
order of magnitude.
>> You know, today we have 45,000 people
and $110 billion of capital. The firm is
much more productive against producing
reasonable returns on that capital than
it was 27 years ago. I mean, that's
clear, but that's a 27year look, not a
year-to-year look. AI works when there's
access when there's a lot of data
pooling together a lot of unstructured
data. When I think of a firm like a
Goldman Sachs or maybe a law firm, etc.,
there's always a little bit of an I
think I suspect an alignment problem
where maybe the big producer doesn't
want to share all their data with the
rest of the firm. Doesn't want
everything in their head just to be in
some big knowledge pool that everyone
has access to. you might want to be able
to take your book of business to a rival
shop every once in a while. That's
probably always been the case, but I
think it's probably a bigger deal with
AI because AI could in theory in theory
really leverage all of that latent
knowledge that exists in a lot of
people's heads. How do you think about
getting a firmwide understanding of
what's truly known and understood within
many people's heads so that you can
really maximize this technology at a
time when again it might make sense for
at least some relationship players to
keep a little bit of knowledge inside
their own head?
>> Well, it's an insightful question and I
you know I' I' I'd start with the fact
that one of the things I'm really proud
of about Goldman Sachs is Goldman Sachs
is less what you described I believe
than any other way. I I think that we
really have for a long time it's been
part of the culture, but we really have
a culture of sharing and collaboration.
It is not a star system. People share
share share. It is like it's just such
an ethos at Goldman Sachs that I think
we have less of this problem
>> than other organizations have. But
what's interesting to me about your
question
>> and it makes me really think about it is
it's something that I deeply believe
that you started with and I'd frame it
in three buckets.
This technology is incredibly powerful
when you have a clean data set.
>> Yeah.
>> Put these models against a clean data
set. It is extraordinary. Like it is
mind-blowing to me what you can do, the
speed with which you can do it, the
information that you can accumulate, and
how powerful that is. When you have a
clean data set, it wouldn't surprise
you. Goldman Sachs has an
extraordinarily
amazing data set that we're working very
hard on to make as clean and possible on
everything we've ever done from a
trading and investment banking
perspective over the last, you know, 40
plus years. We happen to build a system
40 years ago called SECD DB that was a
trading system. So we we have data from
all our trading that goes back long
before most other firms kept data on
this stuff. And so
>> we're working very hard on that. these
tools extraordinary. When you have a
clean data set, when you don't have a
clean data set and you send them out
into the world, you get really really
cockami answers. Let me give you a
simple example. You know, just tell a
story from a few weeks ago that that was
another one of these data points for me
and really understanding how this all
works. It's pretty simple. I was down at
the Masters and Rory Maroy was up by six
strokes after two days and I was like,
"Holy cow, he's probably going to win
twice in a row." How many people have
won the Masters twice in a row? I know
Tiger Woods has. Okay, I think Jack
Nicholas has, but I don't know if
there's I can't remember if there's
anybody else. So, I asked one of the
models, "Hey, how many people have won
the Masters twice in a row?" And the
answer comes back, "Jack Nicholas and
Nick Faldo." Oh, yeah. Nick Feld,
they're different, but it didn't say
Tiger Woods. Oh, interesting.
>> So, I said to the model, I said to the
model, "Hey, I don't think you're right.
Didn't Tiger Woods win the Masters two
years in a row." Model says, "Wait one
second." Comes back, "Yes, you're right.
Tiger Woods did win the Masters twice in
a row.
>> Why did you get that wrong?" I said to
the model. Model comes back, well, I
used this source. I did this. I did this
source. The bottom line is not a clean
data set. Yeah. Not a clean data set.
>> Garbage in, garbage out. Now, human
judgment had to look at that and say,
"No, no, no. I don't think that's right.
So that's, you know, are we going to get
to a place where the data sets get
better and better and better? Yes. But
as long as one of the functions of the
model is they go out into the internet
and they go out into social media and
they go out into the media and they go
out into the world. There's going to be
a lot of garbage in, garbage out. The
models can get better and better and
better. But that's going to be it's
going to be really interesting to see
over time how the models get better and
better at distinguishing. And one of the
things that's interesting is I then
asked the model, you know, hey, okay,
will you search this differently the
next time because wherever you went got
it wrong? And the model said, no, that's
not the way it works. Now, one day I
think it will work that way and it will
search it differently. But that's just
interesting to me where we are. Here's
the third thing. Okay.
>> You were talking about what's inside
people's heads.
>> Yeah.
>> I personally believe the answer to this
is never. And this is one of the magics
the magic things about humanity. This is
one of the magic things about creative
things. And by the way, part of
investment banking and client
relationship is creative. It's EQ. It's
emotional intelligence around spending
time with people, how to connect with
people, how to build trust with people.
Okay? Machines can be really, really
good. Tools can be really, really good.
But unless you're in the camp that
humanity is not going to be about trust
and relationships,
you know, I I I think this is like I
think this is like a never thing. And so
the bridge is how do you use the tools?
Okay. And with the tools, leverage more
of your humanity and your connectivity
in a special way to be more impactful
with people. Now, here's an example that
I think is an easier example to kind of
to kind of look at. I've I I have a
daughter who's a screenwriter. I've
talked to her extensively about this
because people talk when somebody writes
about their voice.
>> Okay. And one of the reasons why if you
really understand the process of writing
a movie, okay, sure, can AI write a
script? Absolutely. But the first thing
is that script is if if if my daughter's
the screenwriter, it is not in her voice
unless that model has access to every
single thing she's ever written, every
single experience she's had in her life.
every single emotions he's ever felt
never going to have that. And so voice
matters when you're writing or doing
something creative. Now, here's the
thing. She puts she puts her voice on
whatever she writes. Now, she goes to
the studio. The producer says, you know,
I don't like this. I don't like that.
That's a personal feeling. He's not
asking the model to say whether I like
it or I don't like it. He's reacting to
it emotionally because it's creative.
It's like relationships. I don't like
this. By the way, somebody came in and
pitched an investment banking deal and
the CS said, "You know, there was just
something I just didn't like the way
that guy talked to me."
>> Okay, that's a that's a human emotion
that matters. That's not going to
change.
>> And so this concept of getting things
out of people's head, what you're really
talking about is human intelligence,
humanity, um you know, EQ. And I I just
I think we're going to figure out how to
use these models more powerfully. The
data sets are going to get cleaner and
cleaner. Yes. Maybe we'll expand better
into the second and clean up when you go
out in the world. But when it comes to
the way human beings interact, I
actually think this is a superpower
that's going to get more valuable and
more valuable and more valuable. And
it's something we want I I think people
should think about. People should try to
learn. You know, I think public speaking
still matters. I think writing is still
going to matter. I think how you
communicate and talk to people is going
to matter. How you spend time with
people, how you build, all this stuff's
not going away.
>> All right. So Goldman Sachs bankers
should be uh social maxing. I guess.
>> Yeah, that's right.
Well, by the way, the most successful
people at Goldman Sachs have
extraordinary
>> interpersonal skills.
>> I believe it. We interviewed uh Lloyd
Blankfine a couple months ago, and Lloyd
like he's a funny guy.
>> Super fun. Really funny. Super funny.
>> You're a fun guy, too. You too.
>> I'm not as funny. I'm really not as
funny. I mean, he's much funnier than I
am.
>> You mentioned looking up share prices
earlier on the Quotron machines. And
speaking of share price, your stock
recently crossed a $1,000. Goldman Sachs
high.
>> Um, an all-time high. So,
congratulations.
>> Thank you very much
>> on that. My question is, how often do
you look at the share price of Goldman
Sachs? Is that like the first thing you
look at when you wake up in the morning?
>> Well, I don't it's not the first thing I
look at when I wake up in the morning
because I looked at it when it closed
the day before.
>> So, I and it doesn't it generally
doesn't change overnight. Look, I when
when the stocks, you know, during the
week, I would say I look at the stock
price, you know, most days during the
week, but it depends what I'm doing. If
I'm in the office, if it happens to be a
day when I'm in the office going from
meeting to meeting and in between
meetings, you know, I jump on my desktop
and I'm responding to emails or I'm
making telephone calls, the screen's up
and I'm looking at our stock price, but
I'm looking a bunch I'm trying to look
at what's going on in the market, have
an absorption as to what's going on in
the market that day.
um you know if it's a day where I'm in a
bunch of meetings and I'm on the road I
might not look at the stock price at all
but probably at the end of the day I'd
look and say hey what happened today and
by the way it's not just our stock price
it's actually what happened in the
market today for me to be effective I
have to be super in touch with what's
happening in the market you know every
day um and I spend time on the weekend
also catching up on it you know from my
perspective about our stock price of
course it's human nature I'm going to
look and see but what I really care
about is kind of yeartoear year to year.
And what I really believe deeply and
it's been one of the things our
leadership team has really been focused
on for the last eight years is if you
grow the earnings of the firm, if you
invest in growth in the firm and you
grow the earnings of the firm, the stock
will do just fine. You know, the
multiple will move around, but if you
grow the earnings of the firm, the stock
will do just fine. And so, we've been
focused on investing in the business and
growing the earnings of the firm. And
we've grown the earnings of the firm
materially. We we put out we had our
first investor day in January 2020 and
we put out a plan and we've been
executing against that plan and since
then we've grown the revenues of the
firm you know 65ish% we've grown the
earnings of the firm about 140 to 145%.
And what do you know the stocks reacted
really well and we've gotten a little
bit of a better multiple because it's a
much bigger more diverse durable
business. The durable revenue nature of
the business is better. So we're getting
a better you know a better multiple you
know on on what we're doing. But I'm
super excited because I now look ahead
for the next 5 to 10 years and I look at
this technology and our ability to
remake operating processes and take the
most productive people and have them
spend more time with clients and broaden
our client footprint in areas like
wealth management, etc. I'm like, wow,
we can really grow the firm. We can
really grow the firm and grow the
earnings further because we're going to
have more capacity to invest in growth.
And so that's super exciting. And so
it's it's been a journey. I mean, when I
started the stock was around 200 um and
um and you know, now the stock's over a
thousand. By the way, it could go back,
you know, but it's not going back to
200. Um but you know, the stock can back
off. The multiple come down. Our
earnings could slow if we went into a
tough economic environment. But
fundamentally, the firm is bigger,
broader, more diverse, more durable, and
I think on a super course, you know, for
more earnings growth and more
performance for our shareholders over
the next five years. So the performance
is objectively strong but you know no
offense you can see a lot of charts
right now in the market that are going
straight up into the
>> absolutely but the important the
important thing and I know you know this
Joe the important thing is to look at
the relative performance and the
relative performance the relative
performance over the time we're talking
about is top of the heap
>> totally
>> and we're going to keep driving to try
to deliver that
>> but I got a sort of a capital markets
question for you that's sort of maybe as
a banker you might have uh some thoughts
on what do you make of uh so connecting
it to the AI conversation. What do you
make of what was your thought when you
saw maybe you had someone involved in it
uh Google making an equity raise to
continue? I like that was interesting
because there's been a lot of debt
financing from the big tech companies
for the AI buildout which we could have
done a whole episode just on that. What
do you make of a a company that big
doing an equity raise at these levels
and even doing like a private placement?
When I looked at when I asked chat GPT
and I could be wrong as your example
with Tiger Woods noted when I asked
about comparables like what other big
companies did these private raises
they're almost all crisis era Birkshire
investments including one in Goldman but
what do you what did you make of that
Google doing an equity raise to finance
uh rather than a debt raise? Well, there
there there there are um you know there
a couple things, you know, to think
about here, but you know, first of all,
>> I I know a little bit about this and
there's some things I can talk about and
some things I can't, but I think you
know that the firm ran this whole
process and the firm was the only bank
that was involved in this for the last
five months, you know, up until a couple
of days ago when other banks,
>> you know, were brought in to participate
that the firm ran this over the last
five months. This was Goldman Sachs's
deal. on the team, you know, that were
led le led by Yasmin Kupal and Kim
Pausnet um and David Lewig, you know, on
their equity capital markets business
did an extraordinary job. This is one of
the largest, if not the largest
secondary following equity offering
ever. Yeah. And we're ultimately, if the
green shoe is exercised, you know, we're
going to raise 85, you know, to 90.
>> It was up this morning from 80 to 84.6.
>> Yeah, we we upsized it. And the green
shoe, my guess is given the way the
stock's trading will probably be
exercised in the coming days. And so
they raised $90 billion. And so it's
it's it's it's it's really
extraordinary. And by the way, I think
one of the interesting things to think
about this is the first concrete
tangible data point on investor demand
at this scale and we have some other
things coming up at this kind of scale
that that and so this is a very
important tangible investor data point.
I think one of the things that's that's
very helpful to the firm is sitting in
the middle of this. We got a lot of
information yeah on how investors are
thinking about all this and and and the
others that I think is is super super
interesting for us. Um but this is you
know it's unprecedented at scale and
it's reflective of the fact that we now
have some of the largest companies in
the world that have capital plans
>> over the next five years that are very
very significant and they can fund a lot
of it with debt but I think you're going
to see and Alphabet is the first one to
make this decision I think you're going
to see a bunch of them fund a bunch of
it with debt but also raise more equity
because they're starting to think about,
okay, what does this look like? It's one
thing, what does it look like this year,
but what does it look like over the next
5 years? How much capital do we need?
How much debt? Equity markets are good.
Our multiples are pretty high given the
way the market's responding at the
moment. We've got to think about our
leverage going forward. The capital's
available. And so, the analysis is, and
this is not all public, but in
specifics, but I'll talk generally. A
company has to look and say not just
what's our one, two, or threeear capital
plan. What do we think our capital plan
is over the next 5 to 10 years? How's
that going to change our leverage, what
if there was a change in the market
multiple, okay, and our leverage is up?
How are we going to feel about that? And
it requires kind of a long-term
conviction on what you're doing from a
capital deployment standpoint and making
the decision as to what makes you more
comfortable
>> in kind of the leverage and balance
between debt and equity. I think you're
going to see more companies issue equity
because, you know, this is not capital's
available and you want to be cautious
about this. If you get it wrong, if you
totally rely on debt and you get it
wrong, you will really regret
>> if if you wind up having a downside
scenario that's tougher than you
expected. So, I think you're going to
see more companies, you know, think that
through. And Alphabet's the first
company to step forward. Our our team,
you know, spent a lot of time, you know,
over the last five months really helping
them think through these kinds of
issues. They were I think they were very
smart to really think it all through.
Well, speaking of equity raisings, you
got the lead on the SpaceX IPO. So,
again, congrats on that. I
>> again, our our our team, you know,
really really the team on that really
really extraordinary. Dan De's, Kim
Pausnet, I mean, just just really Susie
Sher really really extraordinary
partners of the firm who just just done
an extraordinary job over over years. I
mean, over years.
>> I imagine this was a very competitive
process, right? And you were talking a
lot about the importance of
relationships earlier using SpaceX as a
concrete example. Like what does that
relationship actually look like? Is it
true that you were, you know, sliding
into Elon Musk's DMs to pitch yourself?
Like what is it that you offer to a
potential client that other banks can't
offer? Well, I mean, there there are
things that I'm willing to to say and
try to give you some perspective on it,
but the the most important point
>> that I could amplify about this is we
didn't win this in the last six months.
We won this over the last 20 years.
>> Wow.
>> The decision wasn't made. The decision
wasn't made until the last six months.
And there's a lot of things that the
team did over the last six months that
contributed to the ultimate result which
by the way now we have to execute. Um
but um but this is a cumulative effort
of lots and lots of people over 20
years. And we first as a firm we f first
met Elon Musk. Um and the person that
first was responsible for covering him
was a guy named Stuart Bernstein who was
doing a bunch of stuff around you know
kind of green energy and he was he had
he and his brother had Solar City. Um
and that's that's where that's where we
first connected with Elon. And then you
know we took Tesla public um when Tesla
went public. You know sometime around
Solar City and Tesla I first met Elon um
and so I've known Elon you know for more
than more than 15 years. um Dand De's
you know Stuart Bernstein kind of
semi-retired from the firm in um the
early part of the last decade so let's
say 2012 2013 and Dan De's um who now
runs our global banking and markets
business was an investment banker um who
was just coming back to the US after
having been in Asia for a long time and
he was basing out of the west coast and
running our TMT banking business and he
started building a personal relationship
with Elon and Dan has built a really you
know wonderful dialogue with Elon over a
long time, but it's not a straight line.
And there are times, you know, there are
times where we're doing things and we're
not completely in sync. But at the end
of the day, as a firm, we've been
longterm committed to Elon, his
companies, his teams. By the way, you
know, in this situation, um, you know,
Brett Johnson, the CEO, is a hugely,
hugely important guy, and we've had
people spending time with him for years
and years and years. And, you know,
that's what our that's what our business
is. Our business is building trusting
relationships over time with people,
giving the right advice, taking a
long-term view, not being transactional,
and trying to earn trust. So when the
biggest most important things happen in
the world, we have a better chance of
being asked to provide services. And
that's kind of what we do.
>> Did you send him a DM? So with respect
to the the DM, it is it is unfortunately
it's untrue that I pitched Elon via DM
about the deal. But what is what is true
and this is the way facts get confused.
Elon some point in the last year
>> stopped taking texts on his phone or
emails and started telling people that
he knew that if you wanted to get in
touch with him, direct message him on X.
And so because I have a relationship
where I reach out to Elon and we
exchange messages about a whole variety
of different things, I stopped sending
him texts on his phone and started
direct messaging him when I wanted to um
when I wanted to
>> Joe communicates when I when I want to
communicate. I started communicating. So
I actually I went back actually and
looked at the chain. Yeah. you know, in
my ex count, you know, over the last six
months, just to make sure I wasn't wrong
about this when I saw it in the press
and I said to Tony, I don't think this
is true. And I never I never I never
asked Elon in a text message about um
about about the IPO. We focused on his
team. We focused on the work that we had
to do. And we're really proud and
pleased to be leading this. And we're
going to do everything we can working
with the other banks to get the best
result that we can for SpaceX. So, it
looks like this year is going to be a
year of mega IPOs. Uh, we had the
private uh confidential filing from
Anthropic. We'll probably get a couple
others, etc. However, the much bigger
story is still generally private capital
markets have gotten so liquid that some
of these very successful companies, they
could in theory maybe never go public if
they didn't want to. Do you think um is
this some people think this is bad for
capitalism that a bunch of big companies
are going to come in and that unlike the
Microsofts and the Apples and so forth
where the broad public really got to
participate even if you were just an
index fund investor in a lot of the
upside. These companies are going to be
coming at some of the biggest uh market
cap companies in the index and the
public investor will not have caught any
of the ride from the 500th biggest in
the S&P 500 to the 20th etc. Does this
does this break capitalism? Is this bad
for the US or is this is this fine?
>> Well, I'm going to give you a conclusion
first and then we can try to dig in a
little bit to the details which I know
you guys love to do.
>> But I just start I don't think this is
going to break capitalism and I and I
think it's and I think it's good for the
headines.
>> There goes your headline.
>> I think it's good. I think it's good for
the um for the US that we have the
biggest, you know, way most important
>> breaking hot headline just moved on the
terminal. Anthropic said to tap Morgan
Stanley, Goldman Sachs to lead IPO. This
just came out. Okay.
>> So there you go. Okay. Anyway, keep
going.
>> Um so I um I think this is good for the
United States to have the biggest most
important companies in the world.
>> When you when you talk about, you know,
what's happening, you know, there are a
lot of complex things happening about
why we have fewer public companies today
than we had 25 years ago.
>> Yeah. Um and you know this is a
long-term journey around policy
decisions and market structure over a
very long period of time. The reason
that companies like Microsoft went
public when they did at the size that
they did was there was no capital
available to them other than going into
the public market. But it's not fair to
say that, you know, that investors got
to participate, you know, in everything
because it's not like there's more
access for
>> No one talks about the 900 companies
that went to zero that went public in
the same year as Microsoft.
>> That's I mean, that's so and by the way,
that's another thing. Most companies
don't survive. So, it's, you know, it's
it's it's just it's just not, you know,
that simple. I I do think we've created
a regulatory structure and a market
structure that really makes it
unattractive to go public until you have
to. The reason these companies are going
public now is because they have to. They
have capital needs that are so voracious
that it is not prudent for them to try
to do 100% of it in the private market
and not have a public currency.
>> It's it's just not prudent. And um and
that's why I think you're going to see a
bunch of these companies go public
because they actually need the capital.
It's interesting. I've advised companies
for years and at one point 25 years ago
I actually ran the equity capital
markets business at Goldman Sachs. which
job I had early in my career in Goldman
Sachs and and I used to say to
companies, you know, there are a few
reasons to go public. You need the
capital, you need the currency, you have
to create liquidity for, you know, early
investors, but all the other stuff that
people talk about is really not
critical. And you have to recognize that
if you're running a company successfully
and you don't need those things when you
take it public, you will run it
differently. You will run it
differently. It is different running a
public company than a private company.
There are different pressures. There's
different life cycle of how you have to
respond. You will run it differently.
And so my advice has always been wait as
long as you possibly can to go public.
Okay? If you're giving advice to
companies, and I think companies have
recognized, the capital's been available
privately at most scale. The liquidity
has been available in a variety of
different ways at most scale. The
currency thing is tricky, but generally
speaking with these growth companies,
they don't need the currency because
they're growing. They're not doing M&A.
And so I um I think you're going to see
a bunch of these companies go public
because they need the capital because
they've reached a scale and they have
they have a demand for capital where
they need the um they need the capital.
Um, I think the current SEC chairman is
working on a variety of things that
hopefully will take some of the
friction, you know, out of going, you
know, out of going public. Um, which
will help a little bit. But at the end
of the day, given the way markets work
and indexation and passive funds and
ETFs,
>> you know, a $5 billion market cap
company with an $800 million IPO is just
it's it's the discount associated with
getting that going has been less
attractive to, you know, to investors.
And part of the reason is is public
capital's been private capital has been
available without a discount.
>> Yeah.
>> But that, by the way, that could be a
cyclical thing. In other words, we could
see periods of time where private
capital will have a bigger discount in
the public market will be more efficient
and then you'll see more of those
companies come to the come to the public
market, but I think fundamentally, you
know, we're going to operate with fewer
public companies and the companies are
going to be bigger. I mean, that's just
that's that's the way the market
structures evolved.
>> Okay. Okay. So, speaking of capital
being available, which is kind of
putting it mildly, the markets right now
seem kind of crazy to me. And you were
at the Economic Club of New York
yesterday talking about markets being in
more of a greed stage than a fear stage.
Based on your Wall Street experience,
and again, you mentioned you started in
the early 1980s. Have you ever seen
anything like this? Does the current
time period, I I don't know, have a
historical analogy for you?
>> Sure. There are there in fact somebody
said to me recently this is
unprecedented. They were talking about
10 companies um having 30 some percent
of you know 30 some percent of the S&P.
Yeah.
>> You know waiting on a market cap basis.
And I was like no it's not
unprecedented. How about the 1920s? How
about the 1960s? How about um how about
you know the late 1990s to 2000. Um
you know this is
I made the comment yesterday at the
economic club because I was asked about
the way the stock market's running. And
if you actually look at the whole
segment, I said a lot more than that.
And I actually said before I said it, I
said, "Look, I'm I'm gonna say something
and I know it's going to create a lot of
headlines." But I do I do think it
should be said because I do think I'm
seeing some of that behavior that I've
seen before. And um you know, people are
worried about missing out on this
technology boom, whether it's compute,
whether it's storage, whether it's
chips, etc. And so people are crowding
in and that is a that's a greed thing
because they want to participate in
their fear of of missing out. What I
should have said okay at that moment was
all of that but then I should have said
but you know it's kind of interesting
because if you look at the S&P 500 the
top 10 companies which by the way are
are you know mid to high30s uh market
cap and those other three periods you
know the the top 10 companies were also
in the 30s. Um, and one of the things I
have pointed out to people is these top
10 companies actually have more
earnings, right,
>> than the companies did.
>> They generate a lot of cash.
>> They generate a lot of cash. So that's
that's something to observe. But what um
what I should have said is the market
multiple, the earnings multiple on the
top 10 companies in the S&P, these are
approximate numbers, so don't hold them
to me directly. I actually looked at
this this morning um because I thought
this would this would come up and so
hold it as approximate. The top 10
companies are trading on forward
earnings in the low30s. Okay. In the
1990 late 90s 2000 internet boom those
companies were trading at more like high
40s to 50.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. You think about Cisco when its
market cap was over 600 billion.
>> So these multiples yeah are high but the
growth's pretty good. The earnings are
real. Um those numbers are on the high
end of the distribution for sure but not
crazy. The other 490, okay, are trading
between kind of 17 to 20, which by the
way, 20 high side. When you add it all
together, it's kind of 22 times forward.
A lot of it's at 17. You know, I
actually think the 17 sounds pretty
attractive if you think that all these
companies are going to be able to use
technology. Not all of them will execute
successfully, but be able to use
technology to improve operating
processes and create more efficiency and
therefore faster earnings growth and
more investment in their business. you
should see over the next five years
improvement in the earnings growth of
that other 490. I'm talking on average.
>> So, is the market running? Yes. Are
people crowding into a handful of stocks
because they're fearing of missing out?
Yes. That's what I meant about the greed
versus, you know, versus um versus fear.
But this could go for quite some time
because it's narrow and on an historical
context, you know, it doesn't look like
Polaroid at 80 times earnings in the
1960s. doesn't look like RCA at an
infinite amount of time times earnings
on the 1920s. So, it's, you know, it's
I'm I'm I'm not sure is the bottom line.
I'm not sure, but but there's no
question for a narrow group of stocks,
the markets the markets the market's
really running. And we've got a lot of
What's interesting to me is we have a
lot of things going on in the macro
with with the war, with the oil shock,
supply chains, inflation getting
stickier
>> that are going to have an effect. And
you know, the market may absorb all that
differently than it's absorbing it at
the moment. At the moment, it's kind of
brushing it aside.
>> Things can always get crazier, as Joe
likes to say.
>> That's right. You're going to be
involved in the anthropic IPO. Congrats
on that. Just between the three of us
here. No one knows.
>> Just between the three of us.
>> Just between the three of us here. I
know you're part of um Mythos and
Project Glass Wing. And there's this
cynical take. It's like, oh, they did
they just released it to a small group
because they actually didn't have enough
compute, whatever. Have you What have
you seen? And is it really like is it
keeping your cyber security people up at
night? Have you found a bunch of bugs
that you didn't know about? Tell us what
can you tell us?
>> Well, here's here's what I can say
publicly. I I think it's very important.
These models are incredibly powerful and
I think it's very very important that
these companies that are producing these
incredibly powerful models work
collaboratively with the government and
with the private sector to give people
opportunities to understand you know
what these models can do and to try to
continue to secure our critical
infrastructure as effectively as we can.
Do I think the purpose that the process
around this was perfect? No. But we're
learning as we go and I think there are
a lot of things in the process that have
been good and have been helpful. It
wouldn't surprise you that just using
financial services for example is the
eight largest banks are significantly
ahead on cyber investment and cyber
protection over the last decade than
bank number 2000 that sits in the middle
of the country.
>> Yeah.
>> In in Arkansas. Okay. and the risk in
financial services. It doesn't mean that
there can't be issues for the biggest
banks and the biggest banks need to
constantly constantly constantly
constantly think about this. We invest a
lot in this and we're all over this.
That doesn't mean we can't have a
problem. We could, but the risk is that,
you know, a medium-sized bank has a
problem and it creates fear in a broader
group of medium-sized banks. And you
don't have to look that far. If you look
at SVB and how SVB had a problem and it
created fear Yeah.
>> in a variety of banks, you could see a
cyber attack at a midsize bank creating
ripples through the banking system which
will be which will be, you know,
dislocating. And so, you know, I think
it's really important that we figure
out, you know, how to help the broader
business community get more invested.
And by the way, that's something that's
got to happen both by the private sector
investing more, but also the government
finding ways, you know, to help. So, you
know, I do think that the
administration's um executive order to
get these models is important. There's
got to be coordination between the
government and business on this. And I
think the process will continue to get
better. There are going to be more
models. There's going to be more
process. Um and you know, we've
obviously had a team that's that's
learning, looking, um you know, when we
learn things, making adjustments, and
we're going to continue to do that. But
that's that has been a part of what we
do. This might be accelerating a little
bit, but it's not that different from
what we've been doing for a long time.
Just maybe the pace of some of the
change and what these models can do is
going a little bit faster. And so, we've
got to be more nimble. And we have the
resources to do that. What I worry about
is all the companies that don't have the
resources to do it. And it's, by the
way, it's not just financial
infrastructure. Think about energy
infrastructure. The biggest utility
company is going to be way ahead of, you
know, the local water company in Akran,
Ohio, right? And so, you know,
everybody's vulnerable. And so, we've
got to figure out how to help people and
bring people along.
>> I want to pivot. I guess we're going to
run out of time soon, so I want to pivot
slightly to a very important question,
which is your own use of AI.
>> Joe, and I know that you're into music.
You like to DJ famously. Have you been
experimenting with uh AI generated
music?
>> Yeah, I mean, I've I've been I've been
playing with it. Um, you know, I've been
I've been I've been playing with it and
and and what I'd say is what I think's
cool about it as someone who's who's
produced a bunch of music. Um, and I
want to come back to that because I
think there's an important kind of
lesson to learn about history in terms
of music production to where it is.
>> Um, I um I think it's super cool. But
what it does is it opens up the creative
channel to people that would never have
an opportunity to produce music.
>> Okay. Well, that's just a little bit of
history about music production because
by the way, 30 or 40 years ago, I could
never have produced music. Now, it so
happens I played an instrument when I
was in elementary school and high
school. I played the saxophone. I can
read music. I understand music theory
because I played an instrument for for,
you know, 12 years. When I was in out
of, you know, out of college, you know,
I I would call myself a recreational
drummer. I mean, I could sit on a drum
set and carry a two4 beat and and, you
know, so I I I understand bass music
theory, but you know, I've been a rock
and roll guy forever. Like, I love Bruce
Springsteen. Okay. I saw my first Bruce
Stringene show in 1978, The Darkness on
the Edge of Town tour. When he wrote
that album, and by the way, the albums
that came before and a bunch of them
that came after. He sat in a studio or
he sat at a piano or he sat with a
guitar. He wrote notes down on paper. He
wrote lyrics down on paper. He played
around with it. Then he invited human
beings into the studio with him that
played piano, organ, drums, guitar,
horns, saxophone, all different things.
And they sat there and they made the
music.
>> And somebody recorded it and it got
pressed onto a vinyl album. Okay. A lot
of the music that we listen to today has
been made on a computer on platforms
called Logic Pro or Ableton,
>> which is actually how I work to produce
the music that I produced. And so if you
want horns, you can choose from 150
different horns. Okay? You don't need 15
different musicians. Okay? Nobody's
talked about, you know, the difference
how technology evolved. And by the way,
what it did is because Logic Pro and
Ableton exist and I'm relatively
dysfunctional on the platforms, you
know, I can muddle my way around, but I
need an expert to help me because they
can do in three seconds, what takes me
10 minutes. But what it allowed is for
somebody to say to me, hey, I want this
kind of a sound. Okay, I didn't now have
to write the musical notes down. Okay,
you could basically, you know, basically
take out a piano and, you know, say this
chord sound, this chord progression, try
it on the computer. You could say, "I
want this to be done in horns." Instead
of in a piano click, it's now horns. And
you can basically, you know, put a
topline together. That's very
interesting with a computer. A lot of
the music that's produced today that we
listen to is produced that way.
>> Okay. Now, what you've got is you've got
an application that's basically doing
that.
>> Okay. And I think there are a couple of
big issues that need to be wrestled
through with this. The first is these AI
apps are using other people's content in
some way. Right. Right.
>> And the artists aren't getting in any
way um compensated, you know, for that.
And I think you've got to think about
how you're going to bring the artist
community and their IP, you know, into
the discussion of this over time. And,
you know, it's not gotten a lot of
attention, but I think it's a very very
important a very very important thing
that has to be dealt with. And secondly,
this goes back to the whole discussion I
had about voice when I was talking about
my daughter and and screenwriting. Oh
yeah.
>> Okay. You know, the stuff I produced,
okay, it's my voice. I said, I like I
like the way this sounds to me, so do it
this way. I like the way this feels, so
let's try it this way. Okay? And then
you put it out there and you see whether
or not anybody likes it. Obviously, the
technology allows you to do it faster,
but without a human being really then
massaging it and tempering it, okay? You
know, I I think you get you're going to
get at the moment certainly mediocrity
and as opposed to, you know, really
really interesting resonant stuff.
>> David Solomon, uh clearly you've given
uh the music industry quite a lot of
thought. Thank you so much for coming on
a thoughts. Really appreciate it.
>> Well, thank you for having me guys and I
appreciate appreciate the conversation
and appreciate you guys. Thank you,
>> Joe. That was a lot of fun.
>> That was a lot of fun.
>> A lot of fun. Um kind of surprised how
much thought David puts into the music
industry, to be honest.
>> No, I loved I loved um I loved that you
asked that last question and I liked how
thoroughly he answered it. I wasn't sure
if that would be the type of thing where
he was like, "Well, you got to focus on
the banking." You know, the thing that
really struck and there's a number of
themes within the conversation that are
very important and to think about,
>> but I mean, he's really good with dates
and names. And as someone who is not
good with names specifically and I'm
okay with dates
>> like I think okay like what is some I
asked him that question I was like what
do you have that like okay you still
there are other bankers and you're like
a producer
>> you get some of those you get that sense
right someone who's like that good at
like crediting the right people knows
the name knows the days knows what they
contributed
>> I kind of wish I had that skill a bit
more
>> yeah you can always tell a good odd lots
guest by like how many specific dates
points they bring up.
>> Wait, I know a good data point, by the
way.
>> Oh, go on.
>> Um, just the one
>> I There's one data point. So, when in
the music question
>> Yeah.
>> and he uh mentioned having gone to see
Bruce Springsteen's Darkness on the Edge
of Town tour in 1976.
>> That was uh that album came out really
close to the bottom in the 1970s. And
but this is why it's interesting because
plenty of albums came out.
>> Bruce Springsteen re-released Darkness
on the Edge of Town in 2010. So twice
that album has been associated with sort
of like generational historic lows in
the
>> Oh, that's funny. Okay, so we'll know
the the crash is coming when Bruce
Springsteen re-releases this for the
third.
>> We'll know the next time. So there's
going to be at some point there'll be
another crash when he re-releases it as
a buy. That's the buy signal.
>> All right. All right.
Important data point here. Um but no
thinking about the AI job situation.
This is a theme that keeps coming up
which is if knowledge is commodified if
knowledge and experience gets
commodified on a single platform
>> then the human interaction social maxing
looks maxing whatever you want to call
it
>> seems to be getting more important.
>> I would actually even say there's
another thing that's absolutely true and
I would say there's probably something
else which is that okay like everyone
gets this sort of like commodified AI
answer. So okay then you can infer that
the human touch will be more important
>> but then you add in the fact that the
last 15 years of mobile phones has
destroyed so many people's like ability
to like make eye contact that it
probably be even more in a premium even
setting aside AI because the skills are
probably just going to get rarer as so
many people lose their minds to the
phone and the internet.
>> All right. Uh so everyone remember to
look into each other's eyes when you're
speaking with someone and I guess pick
up the phone for for David's advice. I
also just thought it was really
interesting that he thinks we're going
to see more um public companies doing
private equity offerings that because I
did that that Alphabet headline the
Google headline that was a big deal and
I think caught a lot of people surp by
surprise.
>> So the fact that it's like this is the
first of multiple he expects is a very
interesting uh market trend to watch
>> for sure. All right, shall we leave it
there?
>> Yeah, let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the All
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our
producers, Carmen Rodriguez, at Carmen
Armano Bennett at Dashbot, Kale Brooks
at Kalebrooks, and Kevin Lozano at Kevin
Lloyd Lozano.
>> And for more OddLotss content, you
should check out our daily newsletter.
You can find that at
bloomberg.com/odotss.
>> And you can chat about all of these
topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss.
And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please leave a comment or like the
video or better yet, subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.